---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Intro to Javascript
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-01-23
labels:
  - Java
  - C++
  - Javascript
---

## Comparing Java, C++ and Javascript

The first language I learned in college as a Computer Science major was Java. As a beginner, I thought that Java was easy to follow and the concepts were straightforward. We define a variable and assign a number or a string to the variable, then there are functions that can pass one or two parameters. Moving on to C++, the language deals with pointers and, according to my professor, gives programmers more freedom. Unlike Java, C++ does not specify the errors in the code, you need to hunt for the error and there are chances where you might think your code runs, but there is a bug somewhere in your code. 

Comparing the two languages to Javascript, Java is similar to Javascript but there are also differences. From my recent experience with Javascript, the language is more carefree than Java. I learned that Javascript still runs even if a semicolon is missing, in Java the language will give you an error and require you to add the comma, there are also several ways to code a shortcut for arrays. Despite knowing at least two languages, I still can't determine whether Javascript is s good or bad programming language. I'm still familiarizing myself with Javascript as it is my first time working with the language, I've only down basic codes but I would say its better than HTML.

## What about athletic software engineering?

In my ICS 314 class, we get WOD or Work of the Day prompts that are timed in class and the grade you get for WOD is all or nothing. We do get practice WODs in and out of class, and I would say that it helps improve your skills in coding and to think faster, encouraging you to multitask as well.  This style of learning kinda enforces you to do all the practice WODs to familiarize yourself with Javascript and to settle down your stress on the day of the WOD, which I think is great because you want to do well on the WODs, so you will have no choice but to practice and strive to be better. I think this style of learning might work for me because if I want to do better in the class, I would need to get used to Javascript to improve my skills as a programmer and my problem-solving skills.
