---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: My Life so Far
date: 2020-04-03
labels:
  - COVID-19
---

When the new year came, all I ever thought was just a brand new year. I don't do new year resolutions because I don't follow them and I don't understand why people are so hyped about the new year, for me, it's just the year changing a number. However, even though the beginning of the year just started, a volcanic eruption happened in the Philippines. I came from the Philippines, so when I heard the news about it I was heartbroken before that disaster an Australian wildfire was also all over the news. All the disasters just kept coming and then after Chinese New Year, a virus called Coronavirus or COVID-19 suddenly became an outbreak in Wuhan, China. Present time, the virus now was spread all over the world and almost the entire country is issued to stay home.

I am an introverted person, so not going out is not a problem, but walking around in school and to the bus stop is what I consider my daily exercises even though it's not much. I've never taken an online class before, so I am now experiencing that method and it is quite hard to get any motivation to do any work done. It takes me a while to start doing any assignments, but most of the time I catch up to some of my courses quite late, which I know is not good. Other than procrastinating there are tons of distractions in my house, such as video games, those distractions are also a cause for my procrastination. In some of my classes that require some social interactions, we use zoom but I don't like it because I kinda show some of my personal space, which I find weird, but the experience is interesting.

I work at a retail store, and in retail, we interact with customers as part of our sales and because social distancing is very crucial right now, our store closed and I have had no work since spring break. We did get paid for the two weeks based on the schedule that was made in advance, but after that, they did decide to still pay us though part-timers get less than full-timers. My paycheck won't even reach $100. I need the money because I pay for my tuition, I do get financial aid but I pay the leftover with my own money. I was planning to work more again during the summer but seeing the progress of the outbreak in the US and Hawaii, I don't think that will be possible. Unlike my experience, but my parents are more affected by the virus since they work as housekeepers in a hotel. Without tourists in Waikiki, most of the hotels will close and my mom's hotel closed and she did not have any work since the beginning of March. My dad does still work but is also at risk to get infected, which I worry a lot. My brother and I depend on our parents for food and shelter. Without any work, my mom is very worried about the money to pay for rent and food, so we are trying to not spend too much on snacks and only buy items that are necessary to us.

Being stuck at home, the way my parents work their bodies is by following some cardio videos or getting some sun by sunbathing in the morning. I sometimes join my parents, but most of the time, I stay in my room. I do get my social needs at home, however, I feel like I'll have a hard time talking to people when I go out again. I also learned that I shouldn't do online courses if I have bad time-management. The shift to online courses tested me and now I know that I like face to face classes better. I am forced to listen in a nondistracted environment and I get the motivation to do work. Though, to get my motivation, I make video games all night as a type of reward, if I finish all my work during the day. So far that strategy has worked very well, but I hope I don't get burnt out. Overall, I do hope my family stays safe when they go out and hopefully this virus will begone by summer.
